# Gait-Analysis
Human recognition using Gait analysis
Human motion analysis has been an active research area over the last decade, with applications in surveillance and analysis of clinical and sports videos. Although traditional approaches are based on markers or feature points, we are interested in marker less methods. We focus on a specific category of human motion, i.e., walking. In this project, we build our work by researching on modelling periodic signatures that are generated by human motion.
In this project we focus on a new feature extraction technique known as GEI i.e. Gait Energy Image. This is one of the most effective and efficient energy image extraction technique for marker less or model free techniques.
We then apply classifier machine learning algorithms which helps us to identify the model which is best for Human Recognition. The comparative analysis gives us an insight as what model must be preferred which is then verified by the ROC curves in the later half.
Recognizing people by their gait has become more and more popular nowadays due to the following reasons. First, gait recognition can work well remotely and is non-invasive. Second, gait recognition can be done from low-resolution videos and with simple instrumentation. Third, gait recognition can be done without the cooperation of individuals. Fourth, gait recognition can work well while other features such as faces and fingerprints are hidden. Finally, gait features are typically difficult to be impersonated.
